README.md, before:

# Proseeo

Proseeo is a new way for groups to communicate, organize, and get stuff done. _"I am the cutest little bug tracking software there is!"_

What is Proseeo? Is it a bug tracking platform? Is it a process management tool? Is it a content management system? Is it a chat room or a wiki? *Proseeo is all of these.*

*pro-see-oh*

**ok** ok

# Concepts

Proseeo is unlike any bug tracking software you have used. Before you get started there are few things you need to understand.

## Projects

A project is just a directory on your file system. This directory contains all your project data, including configuration, stories, and attachments. Proseeo makes finding and updating this data easy.

A project is just a directory, so to share a project, check it into source control. (A network file system or Dropbox would should work just as well.) There is no Proseeo server. Project configuration is stored in `project.proseeo`.

## Stories

A story is a like a ticket in a conventional bug database. For each story Proseeo keeps track of who created it, where it is, and what it contains. Stories contain "says" (tweet-like comments), attachments, and routing information.

A story is just a subdirectory under the project. Story metadata is stored in `script.proseeo`. Attachments are also stored in the story directory.

## Plans

Plans define what a story should contain. For example, the `bug` plan might contain fields for `title`, `description`, `fix_version`, and `test_notes`. A plan is a loose schema that defines the story requirements.

Proseeo believes that every story is different, and that no single workflow should be imposed. Each story has a plan file `plan.proseeo`. The plan file is in a simple text format and can be easily edited to suit the needs story.

Plans are just suggestions about what your story should contain. Each field is loosely validated based on "needs" and "wants" and a simple type system. Ultimately it is up to you to decide what each story should contain, based on what makes sense. Proseeo happily stays out of your way.

Proseeo supports template plan files stored in the project directory. When a story is assigned a plan, the template plan is copied into the story directory. Proseo comes with template plan files `bug`, `todo`, and `release`.

## Routes

Routes determine where a story is, where it has been, and where it needs to go. Route destinations include individual users, and user groups. Because Proseeo does not impose a workflow the route is completely mutatable any any time. Proseeo trusts people to make the right routing decisions.

## Queries

later

**ok** ok

# Getting Started

* Download and install Proseeo
* Create a project directory, `cd` into that directory, and execute `p init name`. Name is the name of your project.
* Create your first story using `p start name`. Name is the name of your story, and can be anything you want. You can use a generic name such as `bug` or something specific.
* later

**ok** ok

# Development Notes

Here I am building a platform to help groups get stuff done. This is distributed
process structure. DPS. This is soft business process management.
This is a new way for groups to communicate, to organize, and to get stuff done.
I am starting with business of making software. This is the work I know, and the
first who will use this.

active chain and tip:
created by user A
A assigned to user B
B asked of user A
A responded
B assigned to group C
user D closed

pretty simple. just follow the arrows:
   created by establsihes the starting point
   assigned to user is a 1:1 arrow with no implied next destination
   ask of user is a 1:1 arrow with implied return to sender on "respond"
   assigned to group is a 1:* arrow with no implied next destination
   ask of group is a 1:* arrow with implied return to sender on "respond" by any 1 group member

we can now report on:
   stories that i am in the active chain
   stories that i am at the tip of the active chain
   stories that i am at the tip of the active chain and i am being asked something
   ditto for the last two, but due to group membership
these are reports against the story state itself, not the document state
they are built on built-in concepts in the story model
described above is the "routing" for stories

signing: a way to sign a story to assert authorship from th2is point back to the previous signing
encryption: a way to encrypt parts of the document?? i don't know. this is less interesting to me because i value building an open system. ideally with a slick front end that allows full text searching --- this data should be a repo for information.

git is clunky, that's ok, this is for the hardcore, a web interface can come later, a IOS interface too

could it work for the mongo database to actually live on the network and be shared? i think perhaps it is so!
  --- OR NOT! -- somebody's local repo could be out of date.

perhaps proseeo is business process management inspired by twitter

document templating

dsl to describe requirements?

/templates/bug <-- name of file

needs title:text
needs description:text
optional version_reported_in:named_enum(versions)

needs scrubbed:gate

needs version_assignment:named_enum(versions)

needs fixed_in_version:named_enum(versions)
needs release_note:text
needs fixed:gate

needs test_note:text
needs tested:gate

...
could the document itself somehow advise routing?
...

       title               : color on home page does not match(bright)
       description         : etc etc blah blah(bright)
  want version_reported_in : 2.4, 2.3, 2.2, 13 more(dim)

       scrubbed            : [/] by Landon Kuhn 2 day(s) ago(bright)

  need version_assignment  : 1.1(bright) 2.4, 2.3, 2.2, 13 more(dim)

       fixed_in_version    : 2.4(bright)
  need release_note        : > ____ < (dim)
  need fixed               : > [ ] < (dim)

       test_note(dim)
       tested
       foo_field
       bar_field

       14 more







what's next:

  routing use cases: ask, pass
  indexer and queries
  disable ansi when not supported or wanted
  brew formula
  .
  .
  .
  linking
  signing
  tagging
  eclipse task connector
  file encoding
  archiving
  jira import
  egit integration
  group member pinning
  command suggestions, undo
  extended plan support: attachments, routing

spinny:
  [-  ]
  [ - ]
  [  -]


script:
  attach "filename" by lkuhn @ ... # filename expected to be in story dir
  detach "filename" by lkuhn @ ...

p:
  p attach ~/Desktop/screenshot.jpg # file is copied into story dir as screenshot.jpg
  p attach ~/Desktop/foo/screenshot.jpg # this would fail
  p attach ~/Desktop/foo/screenshot.jpg as screenshot2.jpg # file is copied into story dir as screenshot2.jpg
  p detach screenshot.jpg # removes it from the script state, but not the file system
  p attach new release_document.md # touches release_document.md in story dir. perhaps in the future support a with template keywoard

release plan
  need version:text
  want summary:text
  need release_date:timestamp
  need release_document:attachment

  need accepted:gate

p set release_date now + 1d 1h # now and today keywords with + and - operators with human string operands
p set release_date now + 1d 2h
p set release_date today + 1d

Commit message:

lots more refactoring to cleanup boot strap and make way for index; also added default plan (when exists) on use"

README.md, after:

# Proseeo

Proseeo is a new way for groups to communicate, organize, and get stuff done. _"I am the cutest little bug tracking software there is!"_

What is Proseeo? Is it a bug tracking platform? Is it a process management tool? Is it a content management system? Is it a chat room or a wiki? *Proseeo is all of these.*

*pro-see-oh*

**ok** ok

# Concepts

Proseeo is unlike any bug tracking software you have used. Before you get started there are few things you need to understand.

## Projects

A project is just a directory on your file system. This directory contains all your project data, including configuration, stories, and attachments. Proseeo makes finding and updating this data easy.

A project is just a directory, so to share a project, check it into source control. (A network file system or Dropbox would should work just as well.) There is no Proseeo server. Project configuration is stored in `project.proseeo`.

## Stories

A story is a like a ticket in a conventional bug database. For each story Proseeo keeps track of who created it, where it is, and what it contains. Stories contain "says" (tweet-like comments), attachments, and routing information.

A story is just a subdirectory under the project. Story metadata is stored in `script.proseeo`. Attachments are also stored in the story directory.

## Plans

Plans define what a story should contain. For example, the `bug` plan might contain fields for `title`, `description`, `fix_version`, and `test_notes`. A plan is a loose schema that defines the story requirements.

Proseeo believes that every story is different, and that no single workflow should be imposed. Each story has a plan file `plan.proseeo`. The plan file is in a simple text format and can be easily edited to suit the needs story.

Plans are just suggestions about what your story should contain. Each field is loosely validated based on "needs" and "wants" and a simple type system. Ultimately it is up to you to decide what each story should contain, based on what makes sense. Proseeo happily stays out of your way.

Proseeo supports template plan files stored in the project directory. When a story is assigned a plan, the template plan is copied into the story directory. Proseo comes with template plan files `bug`, `todo`, and `release`.

## Routes

Routes determine where a story is, where it has been, and where it needs to go. Route destinations include individual users, and user groups. Because Proseeo does not impose a workflow the route is completely mutatable any any time. Proseeo trusts people to make the right routing decisions.

## Queries

later

**ok** ok

# Getting Started

* Download and install Proseeo
* Create a project directory, `cd` into that directory, and execute `p init name`. Name is the name of your project.
* Create your first story using `p start name`. Name is the name of your story, and can be anything you want. You can use a generic name such as `bug` or something specific.
* later

**ok** ok

# Development Notes

Here I am building a platform to help groups get stuff done. This is distributed
process structure. DPS. This is soft business process management.
This is a new way for groups to communicate, to organize, and to get stuff done.
I am starting with business of making software. This is the work I know, and the
first who will use this.

active chain and tip:
created by user A
A assigned to user B
B asked of user A
A responded
B assigned to group C
user D closed

pretty simple. just follow the arrows:
   created by establsihes the starting point
   assigned to user is a 1:1 arrow with no implied next destination
   ask of user is a 1:1 arrow with implied return to sender on "respond"
   assigned to group is a 1:* arrow with no implied next destination
   ask of group is a 1:* arrow with implied return to sender on "respond" by any 1 group member

we can now report on:
   stories that i am in the active chain
   stories that i am at the tip of the active chain
   stories that i am at the tip of the active chain and i am being asked something
   ditto for the last two, but due to group membership
these are reports against the story state itself, not the document state
they are built on built-in concepts in the story model
described above is the "routing" for stories

signing: a way to sign a story to assert authorship from th2is point back to the previous signing
encryption: a way to encrypt parts of the document?? i don't know. this is less interesting to me because i value building an open system. ideally with a slick front end that allows full text searching --- this data should be a repo for information.

git is clunky, that's ok, this is for the hardcore, a web interface can come later, a IOS interface too

could it work for the mongo database to actually live on the network and be shared? i think perhaps it is so!
  --- OR NOT! -- somebody's local repo could be out of date.

perhaps proseeo is business process management inspired by twitter

document templating

dsl to describe requirements?

/templates/bug <-- name of file

needs title:text
needs description:text
optional version_reported_in:named_enum(versions)

needs scrubbed:gate

needs version_assignment:named_enum(versions)

needs fixed_in_version:named_enum(versions)
needs release_note:text
needs fixed:gate

needs test_note:text
needs tested:gate

...
could the document itself somehow advise routing?
...

       title               : color on home page does not match(bright)
       description         : etc etc blah blah(bright)
  want version_reported_in : 2.4, 2.3, 2.2, 13 more(dim)

       scrubbed            : [/] by Landon Kuhn 2 day(s) ago(bright)

  need version_assignment  : 1.1(bright) 2.4, 2.3, 2.2, 13 more(dim)

       fixed_in_version    : 2.4(bright)
  need release_note        : > ____ < (dim)
  need fixed               : > [ ] < (dim)

       test_note(dim)
       tested
       foo_field
       bar_field

       14 more







what's next:

  routing use cases: ask, pass
  indexer and queries
  disable ansi when not supported or wanted
  brew formula
  top of plan: starting route, including support for {creator}
  .
  .
  .
  linking
  signing
  tagging
  eclipse task connector
  file encoding
  archiving
  jira import
  egit integration
  group member pinning
  command suggestions, undo
  extended plan support: attachments, routing

spinny:
  [-  ]
  [ - ]
  [  -]


script:
  attach "filename" by lkuhn @ ... # filename expected to be in story dir
  detach "filename" by lkuhn @ ...

p:
  p attach ~/Desktop/screenshot.jpg # file is copied into story dir as screenshot.jpg
  p attach ~/Desktop/foo/screenshot.jpg # this would fail
  p attach ~/Desktop/foo/screenshot.jpg as screenshot2.jpg # file is copied into story dir as screenshot2.jpg
  p detach screenshot.jpg # removes it from the script state, but not the file system
  p attach new release_document.md # touches release_document.md in story dir. perhaps in the future support a with template keywoard

release plan
  need version:text
  want summary:text
  need release_date:timestamp
  need release_document:attachment

  need accepted:gate

p set release_date now + 1d 1h # now and today keywords with + and - operators with human string operands
p set release_date now + 1d 2h
p set release_date today + 1d
